---Title: How to set up a Baseline---#How to set up a Baseline- [[howto]]- See the [Pharo baseline documentation page](https://github.com/pharo-open-documentation/pharo-wiki/blob/master/General/Baselines.md). Also see the {{gtClass:name=BaselineOf}} class comment.- Also see the [[YAML Parser project #3046]] baseline for an example.- #Basic template    - For each project/package `X`, have a package and class called `BaselineOfX` that inherits from {{gtClass:name=BaselineOf}} and implements a method called `baseline:` with a `<baseline>` pragma.    - The basic template is:        - ```language=text
baseline: spec
	<baseline>
	spec for: #common
		do: [ spec
				package: 'X';
				package: 'X-Y' ]
```- #Dependencies    - To sepcify *internal* dependencies between your packages of your own project, use `#package:with:` and `#requires:`.    - #baseline gtPragmas & #package:with: gtSenders    - For *platform-specific* dependencies, use `#includes`. (Apparently not very common.)    - #baseline gtPragmas & #includes: gtSenders    - To depend on a specific gt repo, use `#baseline:with:`.    - #baseline gtPragmas & #baseline:with: gtSenders    - See the documentation for dependencies on subsets of got projects.- #Determining your dependencies    - If you inspect the repo for  your package, you will see a Dependencies tab.    - NB: you must have already specified dependencies in a (loaded) baseline. Then the analyzer will tell you which dependencies are missing.    - SPL package    - Click on the missing dependencies to find the packages to depend on. See below to find examples of other baselines that depend on the same package.    - You can find which dependencies are missing from the baseline, add them, and refresh the view to perform the analysis again.- #How to find the repo/baseline of a package?    - Find the repo:    - className := SPL.packageName := className package name.IceRepository registry	select: [ :repo | (repo packages collect: #name) includes: packageName ]    - Find the baselines referring to it:    - className := SPL.packageName := className package name.#baseline gtPragmas &  packageName gtSubstringMatch    - packageName := 'GToolkit-Phlow'.#baseline gtPragmas & packageName gtSubstringMatch.