---Title: How to compose views---#How to compose views- [[howto]]- For the SPL demo it would be nice to have a composite view showing the program state, the environment and the output as three panes of a view.- [[TG]]says that must be done by turning the views into elements, and then composing them.- To turn a view into an element, do this:    - (object gtSomeViewFor: GtPhlowEmptyView new) asElementDo: [:e| e]- For the layout, consider the examples {{gtMethod:name=BlFocusExamples>>#linearHorizontal}} and {{gtMethod:name=BlFocusExamples>>#linearVertical}}.- We can compose the views as follows:- factorial := SPL		reduce: 'var comment = "This is an initial context"; print comment; print "Here is some output to look at.";'.factorial program: SPL factorial.state := (factorial gtCodeFor: GtPhlowEmptyView new) asElementDo: [ :e | e ].envt := (factorial environment gtVariablesFor: GtPhlowEmptyView new)		asElementDo: [ :e | e ].output := (factorial gtOutputFor: GtPhlowEmptyView new) asElementDo: [ :e | e ].{state.	envt.	output} do: [ :each | each border: (BlBorder paint: Color lightGray width: 1) ].verticalContainer := BlElement new.verticalContainer	layout: BlLinearLayout vertical;	constraintsDo: [ :c | 		c vertical matchParent.		c horizontal matchParent ].verticalContainer	addChildren: {envt.			output}.horizontalContainer := BlElement new.horizontalContainer	layout: BlLinearLayout horizontal;	constraintsDo: [ :c | 		c vertical matchParent.		c horizontal matchParent ].horizontalContainer	addChildren: {state.			verticalContainer}.horizontalContainer asScalableElement.- We extract this as a method {{gtMethod:name=SPLContext>>#composedStateElement}}, and we use it to define a new view: {{gtMethod:name=SPLContext>>#gtStateFor:}}.- Here's the result:- factorial := SPL		reduce: 'var comment = "This is an initial context"; print comment; print "Here is some output to look at.";'.factorial program: SPL factorial.factorial