---Title: obsolete script github setup---#obsolete script github setup- [[howto]] [[script]] [[github]]- This is pretty much obsolete with the new setup by [[VH]].- Need to turn this into a tool.- #Script for setting up a github repo.    - See also {{gtPage:How to set up a new GitHub repo|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}.    - **NB: you have to do this part.**        - How to load a new Git repo programatically? Should be an instance of {{gtClass:name=GtGitRepository}}?        - Create the repo.        - Load the repo with the Git tool.        - Add the src folder and repair the repo to add the project metedata.        - Add the lepiter folder and create the lepiter db.    - Set this variable and run the following snippets:    - repoUrl := 'https://github.com/feenkcom/gtoolkit-shorts'    - Initialize these variables    - repoPath := repoUrl removePrefix: 'https://github.com/'.repoName := ($/ split: repoPath) last.giturl := 'git@github.com:' , repoPath , '.git'.packageName := '' join: (($- split: repoName) collect: #capitalized).baseLineClassName := 'BaselineOf' , packageName    - Create a dummy class for the new package.    - dummyClassName := (packageName , 'Dummy') asSymbol.Object	subclass: dummyClassName	slots: ''	classVariables: ''	package: packageName asSymbol.dummyClass := dummyClassName asClass    - Create the Baseline class and package. Compile the baseline: and loadLepiter methods.    - BaselineOf	subclass: baseLineClassName asSymbol	slots: ''	classVariables: ''	package: baseLineClassName asSymbol.baseLineClass := baseLineClassName asClass.baselineCode := 'baseline: spec	<baseline>	spec for: #common do: [ spec package: ''' , packageName , ''' ]'.baseLineClass compile: baselineCode    - path := ' / ' join: (($/ split: repoPath) collect: [ :item | '''' , item , '''' ]).loadLepiterCode := ' loadLepiter
	| currentProperties |
	currentProperties := LeDatabasesRegistry defaultLogicalDatabase properties.
	currentProperties
		addRegisteredDirectory: FileLocator imageDirectory / ''pharo-local'' / ''iceberg'' / '		, path		, ' / ''lepiter''.
	LeDatabasesRegistry default defaultLogicalDatabase reload'.baseLineClass class compile: loadLepiterCode    - baseLineClass    - **Add the new packages to the repo.**    - **Commit and push the changes.**    - Text to usein the README.    - readme := '```Metacello new
	baseline: ''', packageName , ''';
	repository: ''github://' , repoPath , ':main/src'';
	load``````', baseLineClassName, ' loadLepiter```'