---Title: OLD Work on the GT Book---#OLD Work on the GT Book- [[todo]] [[asap]] [[gtbook]]- Have a look at [TG live tutorials on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0ojCViKdEqs-DY7jH5si3toZVyz3f1Ty).- See also [Lessons learned](https://feenk.slack.com/archives/C3KV7MJ0N/p1637499625083700) from giving the tutorials.- #Tutorials    - DONE {{gtPage:Tutorials|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} needs an overview.    - DONE [[Review]] the {{gtPage:Use cases|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}.        - {{gtPage:Use cases|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is content-free. Needs more pointers. Maybe join it with {{gtPage:Get started with Glamorous Toolkit|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}.        - {{gtPage:Working with the GitHub API|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} ends abruptly. Was there supposed to be more?        - DONE {{gtPage:Visualizing yarn.lock files using JavaScript and Pharo|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} needs an intro sentence. What's a yarn.lock file?!    - DONE [[Review]] {{gtPage:Querying Pharo code|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}. This looks like a nice intro to filters. Should point to this from {{gtPage:Understanding reflection|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}.    - **TO DO ** Add a page to the glossary on filters.        - A filter is ...    - **TO DO** {{gtPage:Understanding reflection|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} needs to be written        - Perhaps split into querying (introspection and structural reflection) vs metaprogramming (intercession and behavioral reflection).    - DONE [[Review]] {{gtPage:Example-driven development by example|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - Turn {{gtPage:Playing with Parsers in SmaCC - Show|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} into a tutorial?    - **TO DO** [[Fix the Sparta version of the Memory game tutorial]]    - **TO FIX** {{gtPage:Building the Memory Game Graphics Directly with the Sparta Canvas|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is currently broken and incomplete.    - **TO ADD** [[Create a tutorial on Streams, Futures and Promises]]- #How tos    - The top page {{gtPage:How to ...|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} has no content    - [[Review]] {{gtPage:How to Work With a Remote Code Synced Image |db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - {{gtPage:How to work with the file system|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is just a stub. Needs more content.        - How to access the current directory.        - Relation to URLs        - How to create and modify files and directories!    - {{gtPage:How to work with GitHub|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is a stub        - How to set up a baseline?        - Are there some  online materials? (For example, there is the book [Manage Your Code with Git and Iceberg](https://books.pharo.org/booklet-ManageCode/pdf/2020-05-12-ManageCode.pdf), though it is rather detailed.    - {{gtPage:How to work with external child processes|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} perhaps needs a bit more context    - Try out {{gtPage:How to create a standalone app|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - [[Review]] and try out  {{gtPage:How to parse sources in different languages|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - {{gtPage:How to add a table of contents to a database and classify pages|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is a bit terse.        - Perhaps it is out of date — you don;t need to manually edit the properties file any more, I think.    - [[Review]] all the {{gtPage:How to snippets for managing the default logical database|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - [[Review]] all the {{gtPage:How to snippets for managing the default logical database|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - For {{gtPage:How to translate an ANTLr parser into SmaCC|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}, see [SeanDeNigris discord comment](https://discord.com/channels/729445214812504107/755319168504692778/943532204976394280)- #Explanations    - Front page {{gtPage:Explanations|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is skeletal.    - [[Review]] {{gtPage:Moldable Development|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - [[Review]] {{gtPage:Mapping Moldable Development|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} and {{gtPage:Moldable Development show|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - Possibly edit or expand {{gtPage:What is the difference between Moldable Development and ...|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - {{gtPage:Unifying the development flow|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} appears to be a stub ...    - [[Review]] {{gtPage:Glamorous Toolkit and Pharo|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - [[Review]] {{gtPage:Geometry, Visual, and Layout Bounds Explained|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}        - Also see {{gtPage:One rendering tree|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} and {{gtPage:How does Mondrian relate to Bloc|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}- #Components    - [[Review]] all the {{gtPage:Components|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} pages        - Some are quite detailed, while others are little more than stubs.        - For example, {{gtPage:Debugger|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is pretty much content-free, while {{gtPage:Mondrian|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is very detailed.- #Architectural report    - Not sure what {{gtPage:Architectural report|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is. Maybe needs a bit more explanation- #Glossary of Terms    - The {{gtPage:Glossary of Terms|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}} is skeletal, with just a few terms defined.    - Whenever a new term is needed, add a dedicated page to the Glossary and refer to it from wherever it is used.