---Title: Review and revise the initial GT Book pages---#Review and revise the initial GT Book pages- [[done]] [[gtbook]]- [[issue]] [#3151](https://github.com/feenkcom/gtoolkit/issues/3151)  feenkcom/gtoolkit#3151- #Pages reviewed and revised- {{gtPage:Glamorous Toolkit|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - This is too mystical. Should be more down-to-earth.        - “we reshape the whole development experience”        - “Moldable Development is hard to convey in words. You have to experience it.”    - This suggests that GT is hard to learn. We should sell the idea that, though it is different, the basic ideas are *simple*.    - Instead we should send the message that GT is built on a few *simple* principles that make systems explainable and explorable. Do *not* emphasize in the first steps that this will transform your whole development process. It should emerge, but it is off-putting at the beginning.- {{gtPage:About this book|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - Typos. “It is also writteno and”    - Grammar “it is also a showcase for how *-> what* the documentation of a system can look like.”    - The Treemap does not work.- {{gtPage:Get started|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}    - *Learn how to learn* sounds arrogant and condescending.    - Too mystical again. “This means that learning GT is inextricably linked to learning Moldable Development.”    - The message is, you have to smoke mushrooms to learn about GT.    - The *Learn from concrete case studies* section is nice! This is what we should emphasize. Everything is in the system, because GT itself is explorable  and explainable.