---Title: TG YouTube  Ludo video---#TG YouTube  Ludo video- [[TG]] [[vissoft]] [[p2ludo]]- [[TG]] explains moldable development using the Ludo Game in this [youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LRB0KjQWOVs&list=PL4aJznIeHN6xtVARPWgT8SkbB2hh1I_0h)  with Gene Kim and Eric Normand.- #Interacting with the game    - Starts showing ludo game.    - GtLudoGame new    - Plays a few moves.- #Sending messages to objects    - Switches to playground to play scripted moves.    - Tries scenario where B lands on C.    - TG: When you test, you never get to see the result.- #Exploring the board    - GK: What's the internal representation of the board?    - Dive into the representation. Look at custom view of Players.    - Can see the state of the players. Pick a player and inspect it.    - Can navigate to the tokens and inspect them.    - TG: We have inspected the domain model but we still haven't inspected any code.    - “How does a token know how to display itself?” — go from the token to the square.- #Discussion on bidirectional links    - EN doesn't like the circular references going back to the game. He wants a top-down decomposition.    - TG: there are many ways of decomposing things. Bidirectional links make it much easier to query and navigate.    - EN: So you can say things like “the square's board”    - TG: A bidirectional model is much simpler for querying and exploring a conceptual model.    - TG: Many of the rules we apply came from systems that are very poor in expressiveness.    - TG: We spent the last 15 minutes talking about architectural choices and didn't look at any code. We could get this conversation going just by exploring the domain model.- #Examples    - Looks at example map of {{gtClass:name=GtLudoGameExamples}}.    - Picks {{gtMethod:name=GtLudoGameExamples>>bEntersPlayWithAonStartSquare}}.    - Reads the code and asks, “can you imaginer how this plays out?”    - Opens up the input example. Shows the whole cascade.    - Inspects each step in turn.    - TG: We have another kind of conversation coming from the tests. I can navigate to the objects, or even to the code.    - TG: *The most interesting sentences are those that crosscut boundaries of abstractions.*    - TG: In a small amount of space I was able to go from understanding dependencies between tests, to some tests, to the objects, to visualizations. BTW, when looking at tests, I go from left to right, since the higher-level tests give you the big picture. If I just see a list of tests I don;t know which ones are interesting.- #Recording moves    - TG: It's still hard to follow the intermediate states of the tests.    - Discussion on how to keep track of moves — would have to throw away everything and start again.    - GtLudoRecordingGame new    - Again plays some scripted moves.    - Dives into the history of the moves. Shows A landing on B and sending B back.    - The driver was the presentation which drive the design.    - The assertions and the visualization were the same,  but the internal representation changed because we couldn't show what we wanted to.    - TG: If you just look at functional decomposition, you will miss another dimension. There is another force that is orthogonal to the assertion-driven creation of code, which is otherwise never exercised.    - GK: So now moves are first-class.    - TG: Now we have an immutable domain model.    - Aside: (shows the custom view code) It is possible to have a purely functional decomposition, and provide the context as an extra argument to the view code.    - TG: We've seen this in otherses, where the assertions stayed the same, but the representation changed to accommodate a different visualization.- ##Documentation    - See {{gtPage:Live documentation of the game logic|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}.    - Can use the same examples to create live documentation.    - Shows how complicated scenarios can be visualized.    - You can also document the technical aspects: {{gtPage:Live documentation of the technical solution|db=2j9m7db2i4oz116bexd7wbdxo}}- #Discussion on design process    - TG: I like to ask people, have you every rewritten a functionality that works as expected?    - How do you know when you have to rewrite something?    - EN: In Java I know how hard it is to make things that you can use in multiple ways, for example to query them.- #Wrapup    - TG: We wanted to explore how you can make a system explainable both from a business (user) perspective and technically, how can you have conversations about design without code. We also wanted to explore how the need for visualization is an orthogonal force in design to testing. Finally, we can piece together documentation.    - GK: Everything doesn't have to be a tree. The power of visualization.    - EN: How early did the visualization start?    - EN: Back in 2007 I went back to ask what is OO and why are we doing it this way? I was redoing everything in a functional way. Now I think I need to soften my view of Java and why it only does a bit of what Smalltalk does. Maybe next try to do a simple board game. Maybe checkers.    - TG: The visualization drove the development of the new design. The new one is just a subclass, but follows a functional (immutable) design. Consequence is that we can construct narratives with these pieces.